README.md, before:

# VitePress (alpha) 📝💨

[![Test](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/workflows/Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/actions)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vitepress)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vitepress)
[![chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-discord-blue?logo=discord)](https://chat.vuejs.org)

---

VitePress is [VuePress](https://vuepress.vuejs.org)' spiritual successor, built on top of [vite](https://github.com/vitejs/vite).

Currently, it's in the `alpha` stage. It is already suitable for out-of-the-box documentation use, but the config and theming API may still change between minor releases.

## Documentation

To check out docs, visit [vitepress.dev](https://vitepress.dev).

## Changelog

Detailed changes for each release are documented in the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

## Contribution

Please make sure to read the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/blob/main/.github/contributing.md) before making a pull request.

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/blob/main/LICENSE)

Copyright (c) 2019-present, Yuxi (Evan) You

Commit message:

chore: update README status to `beta`

README.md, after:

# VitePress (beta) 📝💨

[![Test](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/workflows/Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/actions)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vitepress)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vitepress)
[![chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-discord-blue?logo=discord)](https://chat.vuejs.org)

---

VitePress is [VuePress](https://vuepress.vuejs.org)' spiritual successor, built on top of [vite](https://github.com/vitejs/vite).

Currently, it is in the `beta` stage. It is already suitable for out-of-the-box documentation use. There still might be issues, however, we do not plan to introduce any breaking changes from here on until the stable release. 

## Documentation

To check out docs, visit [vitepress.dev](https://vitepress.dev).

## Changelog

Detailed changes for each release are documented in the [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

## Contribution

Please make sure to read the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/blob/main/.github/contributing.md) before making a pull request.

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/blob/main/LICENSE)

Copyright (c) 2019-present, Yuxi (Evan) You
