docs/guide/theme-home-page.md, before:

# Home Page

VitePress default theme provides a homepage layout, which you can also see used on [the homepage of this site](../). You may use it on any of your pages by specifying `layout: home` in the [frontmatter](./frontmatter).

```yaml
---
layout: home
---
```

However, this option alone wouldn't do much. You can add several different pre templated "sections" to the homepage by setting additional other options such as `hero` and `features`.

## Hero Section

The Hero section comes at the top of the homepage. Here's how you can configure the Hero section.

```yaml
---
layout: home

hero:
  name: VitePress
  text: Vite & Vue powered static site generator.
  tagline: Lorem ipsum...
  image:
    src: /logo.png
    alt: VitePress
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /guide/what-is-vitepress
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress
---
```

```ts
interface Hero {
  // The string shown top of `text`. Comes with brand color
  // and expected to be short, such as product name.
  name?: string

  // The main text for the hero section. This will be defined
  // as `h1` tag.
  text: string

  // Tagline displayed below `text`.
  tagline?: string

  // Action buttons to display in home hero section.
  actions?: HeroAction[]
}

interface HeroAction {
  // Color theme of the button. Defaults to `brand`.
  theme?: 'brand' | 'alt'

  // Label of the button.
  text: string

  // Destination link of the button.
  link: string
}
```

### Customizing the name color

VitePress uses the brand color (`--vp-c-brand`) for the `name`. However, you may customize this color by overriding `--vp-home-hero-name-color` variable.

```css
:root {
  --vp-home-hero-name-color: blue;
}
```

Also you may customize it further by combining `--vp-home-hero-name-background` to give the `name` gradient color.

```css
:root {
  --vp-home-hero-name-color: transparent;
  --vp-home-hero-name-background: -webkit-linear-gradient(120deg, #bd34fe, #41d1ff);
}
```

## Features Section

In Features section, you can list any number of features you would like to show right after the Hero section. To configure it, pass `features` option to the frontmatter.

```yaml
---
layout: home

features:
  - icon: ⚡️
    title: Vite, The DX that can't be beat
    details: Lorem ipsum...
  - icon: 🖖
    title: Power of Vue meets Markdown
    details: Lorem ipsum...
  - icon: 🛠️
    title: Simple and minimal, always
    details: Lorem ipsum...
---
```

```ts
interface Feature {
  // Show icon on each feature box. Currently, only emojis
  // are supported.
  icon?: string

  // Title of the feature.
  title: string

  // Details of the feature.
  details: string

  // Link when clicked on feature component. The link can
  // be both internal or external.
  //
  // e.g. `guide/theme-home-page` or `htttps://example.com`
  link?: string

  // Link text to be shown inside feature component. Best
  // used with `link` option.
  //
  // e.g. `Learn more`, `Visit page`, etc.
  linkText?: string
}
```

Commit message:

feat(theme): allow adding images as icons in features section (#1738)
Co-authored-by: Divyansh Singh <40380293+brc-dd@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/guide/theme-home-page.md, after:

# Home Page

VitePress default theme provides a homepage layout, which you can also see used on [the homepage of this site](../). You may use it on any of your pages by specifying `layout: home` in the [frontmatter](./frontmatter).

```yaml
---
layout: home
---
```

However, this option alone wouldn't do much. You can add several different pre templated "sections" to the homepage by setting additional other options such as `hero` and `features`.

## Hero Section

The Hero section comes at the top of the homepage. Here's how you can configure the Hero section.

```yaml
---
layout: home

hero:
  name: VitePress
  text: Vite & Vue powered static site generator.
  tagline: Lorem ipsum...
  image:
    src: /logo.png
    alt: VitePress
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /guide/what-is-vitepress
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress
---
```

```ts
interface Hero {
  // The string shown top of `text`. Comes with brand color
  // and expected to be short, such as product name.
  name?: string

  // The main text for the hero section. This will be defined
  // as `h1` tag.
  text: string

  // Tagline displayed below `text`.
  tagline?: string

  // Action buttons to display in home hero section.
  actions?: HeroAction[]
}

interface HeroAction {
  // Color theme of the button. Defaults to `brand`.
  theme?: 'brand' | 'alt'

  // Label of the button.
  text: string

  // Destination link of the button.
  link: string
}
```

### Customizing the name color

VitePress uses the brand color (`--vp-c-brand`) for the `name`. However, you may customize this color by overriding `--vp-home-hero-name-color` variable.

```css
:root {
  --vp-home-hero-name-color: blue;
}
```

Also you may customize it further by combining `--vp-home-hero-name-background` to give the `name` gradient color.

```css
:root {
  --vp-home-hero-name-color: transparent;
  --vp-home-hero-name-background: -webkit-linear-gradient(120deg, #bd34fe, #41d1ff);
}
```

## Features Section

In Features section, you can list any number of features you would like to show right after the Hero section. To configure it, pass `features` option to the frontmatter.

You can provide an icon for each feature, which can be an emoji or any type of image. When the configured icon is an image (svg, png, jpeg...), you must provide the icon with the proper width and height; you can also provide the description, its intrinsic size as well as its variants for dark and light theme when required.

```yaml
---
layout: home

features:
  - icon: 🛠️
    title: Simple and minimal, always
    details: Lorem ipsum...
  - icon:
      src: /cool-feature-icon.svg
    title: Another cool feature
    details: Lorem ipsum...
  - icon:
      dark: /dark-feature-icon.svg
      light: /light-feature-icon.svg
    title: Another cool feature
    details: Lorem ipsum...
---
```

```ts
interface Feature {
  // Show icon on each feature box.
  icon?: FeatureIcon

  // Title of the feature.
  title: string

  // Details of the feature.
  details: string

  // Link when clicked on feature component. The link can
  // be both internal or external.
  //
  // e.g. `guide/theme-home-page` or `htttps://example.com`
  link?: string

  // Link text to be shown inside feature component. Best
  // used with `link` option.
  //
  // e.g. `Learn more`, `Visit page`, etc.
  linkText?: string
}

type FeatureIcon =
  | string
  | { src: string; alt?: string; width?: string; height: string }
  | {
      light: string
      dark: string
      alt?: string
      width?: string
      height: string
    }
```
