docs/config/app-configs.md, before:

# App Configs

App configs are where you can define the global settings of the site. App configs define fundamental settings that are not only limited to the theme configs such as configuration for "base directory", or the "title" of the site.

```ts
export default {
  // These are app level configs.
  lang: 'en-US',
  title: 'VitePress',
  description: 'Vite & Vue powered static site generator.',
  ...
}
```

## appearance

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `true`

Whether to enable "Dark Mode" or not. If the option is set to `true`, it adds `.dark` class to the `<html>` tag depending on the users preference.

It also injects inline script that tries to read users settings from local storage by `vitepress-theme-appearance` key and restores users preferred color mode.

```ts
export default {
  appearance: true
}
```

## base

- Type: `string`
- Default: `/`

The base URL the site will be deployed at. You will need to set this if you plan to deploy your site under a sub path, for example, GitHub pages. If you plan to deploy your site to `https://foo.github.io/bar/`, then you should set base to `'/bar/'`. It should always start and end with a slash.

The base is automatically prepended to all the URLs that start with / in other options, so you only need to specify it once.

```ts
export default {
  base: '/base/'
}
```

## description

- Type: `string`
- Default: `A VitePress site`

Description for the site. This will render as a `<meta>` tag in the page HTML.

```ts
export default {
  description: 'A VitePress site'
}
```

## ignoreDeadLinks

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `false`

When set to `true`, VitePress will not fail builds due to dead links.

```ts
export default {
  ignoreDeadLinks: true
}
```

## lang

- Type: `string`
- Default: `en-US`

The lang attribute for the site. This will render as a `<html lang="en-US">` tag in the page HTML.

```ts
export default {
  lang: 'en-US'
}
```

## lastUpdated

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `false`

Use git commit to get the timestamp. This option enables the default theme to display the page's last updated time. You can customize the text via [`themeConfig.lastUpdatedText`](theme-configs#lastupdatedtext) option.

```ts
export default {
  lastUpdated: true
}
```

## markdown

- Type: `MarkdownOption`

Configre Markdown parser options. VitePress uses [Markdown-it](https://github.com/markdown-it/markdown-it) as the parser, and [Shiki](https://shiki.matsu.io/) to highlight language syntax. Inside this option, you may pass various Markdown related options to fit your needs.

```js
export default {
  markdown: {
    theme: 'material-palenight',
    lineNumbers: true
  }
}
```

Below are all the options that you can have in this object:

```ts
interface MarkdownOptions extends MarkdownIt.Options {
  // Custom theme for syntax highlighting.
  // You can use an existing theme.
  // See: https://github.com/shikijs/shiki/blob/main/docs/themes.md#all-themes
  // Or add your own theme.
  // See: https://github.com/shikijs/shiki/blob/main/docs/themes.md#loading-theme
  theme?:
    | Shiki.IThemeRegistration
    | { light: Shiki.IThemeRegistration; dark: Shiki.IThemeRegistration }

  // Enable line numbers in code block.
  lineNumbers?: boolean

  // markdown-it-anchor plugin options.
  // See: https://github.com/valeriangalliat/markdown-it-anchor
  anchor?: {
    permalink?: anchor.AnchorOptions['permalink']
  }

  // markdown-it-attrs plugin options.
  // See: https://github.com/arve0/markdown-it-attrs
  attrs?: {
    leftDelimiter?: string
    rightDelimiter?: string
    allowedAttributes?: string[]
    disable?: boolean
  }

  // markdown-it-toc-done-right plugin options
  // See: https://github.com/nagaozen/markdown-it-toc-done-right
  toc?: any

  // Configure the Markdown-it instance.
  config?: (md: MarkdownIt) => void
}
```

## title

- Type: `string`
- Default: `VitePress`

Title for the site. This will be displayed in the nav bar. Also used as the suffix for all page titles unless `titleTemplate` is defined.

```ts
export default {
  title: 'VitePress'
}
```

## titleTemplate

- Type: `string | boolean`

The suffix for the title. For example, if you set `title` as `VitePress` and set `titleTemplate` as `My Site`, the html title becomes `VitePress | My Site`.

Set `false` to disable the feature. If the option is `undefined`, then the value of `title` option will be used.

```ts
export default {
  title: 'VitePress',
  titleTemplate: 'Vite & Vue powered static site generator'
}
```

Commit message:

docs: add "head" config to app-configs (#1011)
Co-authored-by: Divyansh Singh <40380293+brc-dd@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/config/app-configs.md, after:

# App Configs

App configs are where you can define the global settings of the site. App configs define fundamental settings that are not only limited to the theme configs such as configuration for "base directory", or the "title" of the site.

```ts
export default {
  // These are app level configs.
  lang: 'en-US',
  title: 'VitePress',
  description: 'Vite & Vue powered static site generator.',
  ...
}
```

## appearance

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `true`

Whether to enable "Dark Mode" or not. If the option is set to `true`, it adds `.dark` class to the `<html>` tag depending on the users preference.

It also injects inline script that tries to read users settings from local storage by `vitepress-theme-appearance` key and restores users preferred color mode.

```ts
export default {
  appearance: true
}
```

## base

- Type: `string`
- Default: `/`

The base URL the site will be deployed at. You will need to set this if you plan to deploy your site under a sub path, for example, GitHub pages. If you plan to deploy your site to `https://foo.github.io/bar/`, then you should set base to `'/bar/'`. It should always start and end with a slash.

The base is automatically prepended to all the URLs that start with / in other options, so you only need to specify it once.

```ts
export default {
  base: '/base/'
}
```

## description

- Type: `string`
- Default: `A VitePress site`

Description for the site. This will render as a `<meta>` tag in the page HTML.

```ts
export default {
  description: 'A VitePress site'
}
```

## head

- Type: `HeadConfig[]`
- Default: `[]`

Additional elements to render in the `<head>` tag in the page HTML. The user-added tags are rendered before the closing `head` tag, after VitePress tags.

```ts
export default {
  head: [
    ['link', { rel: 'preconnect', href: 'https://fonts.gstatic.com', crossorigin: '' }]
    // would render: <link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.gstatic.com" crossorigin />
  ]
}
```

```ts
type HeadConfig =
  | [string, Record<string, string>]
  | [string, Record<string, string>, string]
```

## ignoreDeadLinks

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `false`

When set to `true`, VitePress will not fail builds due to dead links.

```ts
export default {
  ignoreDeadLinks: true
}
```

## lang

- Type: `string`
- Default: `en-US`

The lang attribute for the site. This will render as a `<html lang="en-US">` tag in the page HTML.

```ts
export default {
  lang: 'en-US'
}
```

## lastUpdated

- Type: `boolean`
- Default: `false`

Use git commit to get the timestamp. This option enables the default theme to display the page's last updated time. You can customize the text via [`themeConfig.lastUpdatedText`](theme-configs#lastupdatedtext) option.

```ts
export default {
  lastUpdated: true
}
```

## markdown

- Type: `MarkdownOption`

Configre Markdown parser options. VitePress uses [Markdown-it](https://github.com/markdown-it/markdown-it) as the parser, and [Shiki](https://shiki.matsu.io/) to highlight language syntax. Inside this option, you may pass various Markdown related options to fit your needs.

```js
export default {
  markdown: {
    theme: 'material-palenight',
    lineNumbers: true
  }
}
```

Below are all the options that you can have in this object:

```ts
interface MarkdownOptions extends MarkdownIt.Options {
  // Custom theme for syntax highlighting.
  // You can use an existing theme.
  // See: https://github.com/shikijs/shiki/blob/main/docs/themes.md#all-themes
  // Or add your own theme.
  // See: https://github.com/shikijs/shiki/blob/main/docs/themes.md#loading-theme
  theme?:
    | Shiki.IThemeRegistration
    | { light: Shiki.IThemeRegistration; dark: Shiki.IThemeRegistration }

  // Enable line numbers in code block.
  lineNumbers?: boolean

  // markdown-it-anchor plugin options.
  // See: https://github.com/valeriangalliat/markdown-it-anchor
  anchor?: {
    permalink?: anchor.AnchorOptions['permalink']
  }

  // markdown-it-attrs plugin options.
  // See: https://github.com/arve0/markdown-it-attrs
  attrs?: {
    leftDelimiter?: string
    rightDelimiter?: string
    allowedAttributes?: string[]
    disable?: boolean
  }

  // markdown-it-toc-done-right plugin options
  // See: https://github.com/nagaozen/markdown-it-toc-done-right
  toc?: any

  // Configure the Markdown-it instance.
  config?: (md: MarkdownIt) => void
}
```

## title

- Type: `string`
- Default: `VitePress`

Title for the site. This will be displayed in the nav bar. Also used as the suffix for all page titles unless `titleTemplate` is defined.

```ts
export default {
  title: 'VitePress'
}
```

## titleTemplate

- Type: `string | boolean`

The suffix for the title. For example, if you set `title` as `VitePress` and set `titleTemplate` as `My Site`, the html title becomes `VitePress | My Site`.

Set `false` to disable the feature. If the option is `undefined`, then the value of `title` option will be used.

```ts
export default {
  title: 'VitePress',
  titleTemplate: 'Vite & Vue powered static site generator'
}
```
