docs/config/basics.md, before:

# App Config: Basics

## base

- Type: `string`
- Default: `/`

The base URL the site will be deployed at. You will need to set this if you plan to deploy your site under a sub path, for example, GitHub pages. If you plan to deploy your site to `https://foo.github.io/bar/`, then you should set base to `'/bar/'`. It should always start and end with a slash.

The `base` is automatically prepended to all the URLs that start with `/` in other options, so you only need to specify it once.

```js
module.exports = {
  base: '/base/'
}
```

## lang

- Type: `string`
- Default: `en-US`

The `lang` attribute for the site. This will render as a `<html lang="en-US">` tag in the page HTML.

```js
module.exports = {
  lang: 'en-US'
}
```

## title

- Type: `string`
- Default: `VitePress`

Title for the site. This will be the suffix for all page titles, and displayed in the navbar.

```js
module.exports = {
  title: 'VitePress'
}
```

## description

- Type: `string`
- Default: `A VitePress site`

Description for the site. This will render as a `<meta>` tag in the page HTML.

```js
module.exports = {
  description: 'A VitePress site'
}
```

Commit message:

feat: support srcDir config option

docs/config/basics.md, after:

# App Config: Basics

::: tip
The config reference is incomplete since the config format may still receive further changes. For a complete reference of the current available options, refer to [config.ts](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/blob/master/src/node/config.ts#L15).
:::

## base

- Type: `string`
- Default: `/`

The base URL the site will be deployed at. You will need to set this if you plan to deploy your site under a sub path, for example, GitHub pages. If you plan to deploy your site to `https://foo.github.io/bar/`, then you should set base to `'/bar/'`. It should always start and end with a slash.

The `base` is automatically prepended to all the URLs that start with `/` in other options, so you only need to specify it once.

```js
module.exports = {
  base: '/base/'
}
```

## lang

- Type: `string`
- Default: `en-US`

The `lang` attribute for the site. This will render as a `<html lang="en-US">` tag in the page HTML.

```js
module.exports = {
  lang: 'en-US'
}
```

## title

- Type: `string`
- Default: `VitePress`

Title for the site. This will be the suffix for all page titles, and displayed in the navbar.

```js
module.exports = {
  title: 'VitePress'
}
```

## description

- Type: `string`
- Default: `A VitePress site`

Description for the site. This will render as a `<meta>` tag in the page HTML.

```js
module.exports = {
  description: 'A VitePress site'
}
```
