docs/reference/default-theme-search.md, before:

# Search

## Local Search

VitePress supports fuzzy full-text search using a in-browser index thanks to [minisearch](https://github.com/lucaong/minisearch/). You can enable it in your `.vitepress/config.ts` with the `localSearch` theme config:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vitepress'

export default defineConfig({
  themeConfig: {
    search: {
      provider: 'local'
    }
  }
})
```

Example result:

![screenshot of the search modal](/search.png)

Alternatively, you can use [Algolia DocSearch](#algolia-search) or some community plugins like <https://www.npmjs.com/package/vitepress-plugin-search> or <https://www.npmjs.com/package/vitepress-plugin-pagefind>.

### i18n {#local-search-i18n}

You can use a config like this to use multilingual search:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vitepress'

export default defineConfig({
  themeConfig: {
    search: {
      provider: 'local',
      options: {
        locales: {
          zh: {
            translations: {
              button: {
                buttonText: '搜索文档',
                buttonAriaLabel: '搜索文档'
              },
              modal: {
                noResultsText: '无法找到相关结果',
                resetButtonTitle: '清除查询条件',
                footer: {
                  selectText: '选择',
                  navigateText: '切换'
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
})
```

## Algolia Search

VitePress supports searching your docs site using [Algolia DocSearch](https://docsearch.algolia.com/docs/what-is-docsearch). Refer their getting started guide. In your `.vitepress/config.ts` you'll need to provide at least the following to make it work:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vitepress'

export default defineConfig({
  themeConfig: {
    search: {
      provider: 'algolia',
      options: {
        appId: '...',
        apiKey: '...',
        indexName: '...'
      }
    }
  }
})
```

### i18n {#algolia-search-i18n}

You can use a config like this to use multilingual search:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vitepress'

export default defineConfig({
  themeConfig: {
    search: {
      provider: 'algolia',
      options: {
        appId: '...',
        apiKey: '...',
        indexName: '...',
        locales: {
          zh: {
            placeholder: '搜索文档',
            translations: {
              button: {
                buttonText: '搜索文档',
                buttonAriaLabel: '搜索文档'
              },
              modal: {
                searchBox: {
                  resetButtonTitle: '清除查询条件',
                  resetButtonAriaLabel: '清除查询条件',
                  cancelButtonText: '取消',
                  cancelButtonAriaLabel: '取消'
                },
                startScreen: {
                  recentSearchesTitle: '搜索历史',
                  noRecentSearchesText: '没有搜索历史',
                  saveRecentSearchButtonTitle: '保存至搜索历史',
                  removeRecentSearchButtonTitle: '从搜索历史中移除',
                  favoriteSearchesTitle: '收藏',
                  removeFavoriteSearchButtonTitle: '从收藏中移除'
                },
                errorScreen: {
                  titleText: '无法获取结果',
                  helpText: '你可能需要检查你的网络连接'
                },
                footer: {
                  selectText: '选择',
                  navigateText: '切换',
                  closeText: '关闭',
                  searchByText: '搜索提供者'
                },
                noResultsScreen: {
                  noResultsText: '无法找到相关结果',
                  suggestedQueryText: '你可以尝试查询',
                  reportMissingResultsText: '你认为该查询应该有结果？',
                  reportMissingResultsLinkText: '点击反馈'
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
})
```

[These options](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/blob/main/types/docsearch.d.ts) can be overridden. Refer official Algolia docs to learn more about them.

<style>
img[src="/search.png"] {
  width: 100%;
  aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
}
</style>

Commit message:

docs:  fix wording in text regarding enabling local search (#2229)

docs/reference/default-theme-search.md, after:

# Search

## Local Search

VitePress supports fuzzy full-text search using a in-browser index thanks to [minisearch](https://github.com/lucaong/minisearch/). To enable this feature, simply set the `themeConfig.search.provider` option to `'local'` in your `.vitepress/config.ts` file:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vitepress'

export default defineConfig({
  themeConfig: {
    search: {
      provider: 'local'
    }
  }
})
```

Example result:

![screenshot of the search modal](/search.png)

Alternatively, you can use [Algolia DocSearch](#algolia-search) or some community plugins like <https://www.npmjs.com/package/vitepress-plugin-search> or <https://www.npmjs.com/package/vitepress-plugin-pagefind>.

### i18n {#local-search-i18n}

You can use a config like this to use multilingual search:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vitepress'

export default defineConfig({
  themeConfig: {
    search: {
      provider: 'local',
      options: {
        locales: {
          zh: {
            translations: {
              button: {
                buttonText: '搜索文档',
                buttonAriaLabel: '搜索文档'
              },
              modal: {
                noResultsText: '无法找到相关结果',
                resetButtonTitle: '清除查询条件',
                footer: {
                  selectText: '选择',
                  navigateText: '切换'
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
})
```

## Algolia Search

VitePress supports searching your docs site using [Algolia DocSearch](https://docsearch.algolia.com/docs/what-is-docsearch). Refer their getting started guide. In your `.vitepress/config.ts` you'll need to provide at least the following to make it work:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vitepress'

export default defineConfig({
  themeConfig: {
    search: {
      provider: 'algolia',
      options: {
        appId: '...',
        apiKey: '...',
        indexName: '...'
      }
    }
  }
})
```

### i18n {#algolia-search-i18n}

You can use a config like this to use multilingual search:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vitepress'

export default defineConfig({
  themeConfig: {
    search: {
      provider: 'algolia',
      options: {
        appId: '...',
        apiKey: '...',
        indexName: '...',
        locales: {
          zh: {
            placeholder: '搜索文档',
            translations: {
              button: {
                buttonText: '搜索文档',
                buttonAriaLabel: '搜索文档'
              },
              modal: {
                searchBox: {
                  resetButtonTitle: '清除查询条件',
                  resetButtonAriaLabel: '清除查询条件',
                  cancelButtonText: '取消',
                  cancelButtonAriaLabel: '取消'
                },
                startScreen: {
                  recentSearchesTitle: '搜索历史',
                  noRecentSearchesText: '没有搜索历史',
                  saveRecentSearchButtonTitle: '保存至搜索历史',
                  removeRecentSearchButtonTitle: '从搜索历史中移除',
                  favoriteSearchesTitle: '收藏',
                  removeFavoriteSearchButtonTitle: '从收藏中移除'
                },
                errorScreen: {
                  titleText: '无法获取结果',
                  helpText: '你可能需要检查你的网络连接'
                },
                footer: {
                  selectText: '选择',
                  navigateText: '切换',
                  closeText: '关闭',
                  searchByText: '搜索提供者'
                },
                noResultsScreen: {
                  noResultsText: '无法找到相关结果',
                  suggestedQueryText: '你可以尝试查询',
                  reportMissingResultsText: '你认为该查询应该有结果？',
                  reportMissingResultsLinkText: '点击反馈'
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
})
```

[These options](https://github.com/vuejs/vitepress/blob/main/types/docsearch.d.ts) can be overridden. Refer official Algolia docs to learn more about them.

<style>
img[src="/search.png"] {
  width: 100%;
  aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
}
</style>
